How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
There are many ways to ensure that code is functional and secure, with the most practiced one being to complete various testing methods.  This includes both manual and automatic testing, as well as other testing strategies like functional, non-functional, unit, and regression testing.  These can help to provide a much needed insite into how the program is meant to function versus how it actually does function.  It is important to receive an output that is expected given any specific input.

How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
User needs are the corner stone for any good developer.  It doesn't matter how good a program is if it doesn't meet the user's needs.  Listening to the client and formulating a strategy for how to complete the assignment is one of the most important steps in the development cycle.  Creating an outline for what is to be included in a program, completing unit tests for each individual method within the program, and ensuring that each requirement put forth by the client is included in the program, are all very important when it comes to meeting user needs.

How do I approach designing software?
Designing software can always be a challenge, since it is so difficult to craft something so intricate from scratch.  In my opinion, it helps to follow the steps of the software development life cycle.  This starts with planning, creating the skeleton for what the code will look like.  Then proceeding to the designing stage, where we actually formulate the code that we outlined in the first step.  Then, we begin testing the code to ensure that it functions properly and the requirements are met. Finally, we move to the revisions stage, where we take what we learned from testing and decide how we will change what we had created in the design stage to improve the product.  This cycle repeats until a desired outcome is achieved.  
